# 7120

---

## 7120.0.0c/5 — Experts & a Crisis of Accountability

Bad things keep happening and its nobody's fault. Everyone is infuriated. Lots of leaders are making huge salaries, bonuses, and lots of perqs but it usually turns out they have no idea what was going on in their own organizations! In 2010, we've seen a tremendous surge in populism and out of pure frustration and anger, using the democratic process to tear down the whole damn system. The relationship between experts, decision-makers and the general public is completely dysfunctional. It is a crisis of accountability, not management or politics. Unaccountability is the root cause according to Davies.

> 📚 *Davies, D (2024) pg. 15*

---

## 7120.3.4/1 — Experts in Political Forecasting

In aggregate, experts barely edge out dart-tossing chimps. Not only that, they were outperformed by sophisticated amateurs working outside their specialty and extrapolation algorithms that mechanically predicted a continuation of the past.

A differential between hedgehog & foxes was most pronounced for long-range forecasts inside their domains of expertise. ^pg.xx^ Who experts were (background, education, status) didn't impact accuracy. Nor did what they thought (lib or conservative, realist or institutionalist, optimist or pessimist). Only their style of reasoning mattered. ^pg.20^

Using Nate Silver's forecasting tools, confidence is still surprisingly close to zero. Best forecasters need to be patient, incremental updaters in response to domains that contain low-but-not-zero relevance events.

> 📚 *Nichols, T (2024) pgs. 202–203*
> 📚 *Tetlock, P. (2017) pgs. xx, 20, xvii*

---

## 7120.3.4/2 — Improving Expertise in Forecasting

A composite portrait of good judgement as a blend of curiosity, open-mindedness, and a tolerance for dissonance. These lead to forecasting accuracy. ^pg.xxi^

What experts think matters far less than how they think — to getting realistic odds on what will happen next. Beware of sweeping generalizations! ^pg.xxi^

Break up the cozy arrangement of having more stringent standards for evidence that challenges our prejudices and looser standards for evidence that reinforces our beliefs.

Good judges understand that forecasts of prolonged radical shifts continuing in the same direction from the Status Quo are a bad bet. ^pg.190^

> 📚 *Tetlock, Philip (2017) pgs. xxi, 30, 190*

---

## 7120.3.4b — Explain vs Predict

"Explanation is possible without prediction. Conversely, prediction is possible without explanation."

Geophysicists understand plate tectonics produce earthquakes and can monitor & record seismic events proceeding them but remain incapable of predicting earthquakes.

> 📚 *Tetlock, Philip (2017) pg. 14*

---

## 7120.3.5 — Problems with Experts' Forecasts

The main finding of *Expert Political Judgement* is that experts thought they knew more about the future than they actually did. ^pg.xx^ (Cognitive Bias — Overconfidence)

Daniel Kahnema & A. Tversky — Judgemental biases of Experts:
- too quick to jump to conclusions
- too slow to change their minds
- too swayed by the trivia of the moment ^pg.xviii^

> 📚 *Tetlock, Philip (2017) intro to 2nd ed.*

---

## 7120.3.5a — Problems Trusting Expert's Forecasts

Our human nature both demands & expects a level of forecasting accuracy & clarity that is not achievable.

Key obstacles:
- Our collective preference for simplicity
- Our aversion to ambiguity and dissonance
- A deep-rooted belief in an orderly world
- A seemingly incorrigible ignorance of the laws of chance

> 📚 *Tetlock, Philip (2017) pg. 37*

---

## 7120.3.7 — Prediction cannot be Science's purpose

The primary purpose of science is to provide explanations according to the author. Predictions are useful but most importantly is the goal of expanding our understanding of the world through creative and critical thinking informing explanations. Prediction and their quest for testability move empiricism to a place of authority and can block the creative thinking needed to expand knowledge at the expense of theoretical explanations. Good explanations go well beyond observable evidence.

> 📚 *Deutsch, D (2011) pg. 14*

---

## 7120.1.2/2 — Foxes

"It is not merely that the fox knows many things. The fox accepts that he can only know many things and that the unity of reality must escape his grasp. The critical feature of foxes is that they are reconciled to the limits of what they know."

"Foxes settle for what they know and may live happy lives"

> 📚 *Berlin, I (2013) pg. x*

---

## 7120.1.2a/2 — Hedgehogs

"A hedgehog will not make peace with the world. He is not reconciled. He cannot accept that he knows only many things. He seeks to know one big thing, and strives without ceasing to give reality a unifying shape."

> 📚 *Berlin, I (2013) pg. x*

---

## 7120.1.0A/0 — Experience is:

Experience shapes our preferences, educates our intuition, and guides our decisions. We want our doctors, airline pilots, lawyers and our personal financial managers to be highly experienced. It's **a product, a process, personal, automatic, durable and quick.**

Because experience is all this — it is hard to ignore. Unfortunately, this is also true when it teaches the wrong lessons.

> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pg. 15–19*

---

## 7120.1.0a/6 — Counterfactuals to Experience

Counterfactual thinking is about asking what-if questions. ^50^ When the stakes are high it's important to ask 2 questions about our experience:

1. What is missing?
2. What is irrelevant?

> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pg. 50, 224*

---

## 7120.0A.0 — Experiences' Negative Effects

Wicked learning environments distort & filter our experiences — "What we see isn't necessarily all that is." History & the record is incomplete: we see only that which happened, not all that might have happened but didn't. Nassim Taleb refers to this as the "narrative fallacy."

Your experience may not be attributable to anything but randomness or a simple reversion to the mean. Consultants, for example, may get more credit than they are due when they get a positive result for a client doing poorly in an uncharacteristic poor performance. ^36^ Waiting for time to pass and the water to find its own level is not something we do well. "Like randomness the time between cause & effect leads us to embrace false stories" — not helpful for future decisions.

> 🔗 *see also: 7180.ØA.8c*
> 📚 *Hogarth pg. 26, 27, 31, 36*

---

## 7120.0A.0a — Dangers of Extensive Experience

Hogarth concludes "extensive exp can lead to expertise" but not all experience is helpful and even can be dangerous. Understand that experience is hard to ignore and usually feels valuable even when it is teaching exactly the wrong lessons. ^19^

For right-side, fat-tail events: Experience conceals real danger (Recency bias). Because you haven't experienced a 500-year flood event doesn't mean you are safe. ^75^ In addition, as we get better we find it harder to adapt — core capabilities become core rigidities. ^58^ Finally as time passes and disruptive change and innovations occur your deep past experience may become unreliable or irrelevant. ^49^

> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pg. 14–15, 17, 58, 75, 49*

---

## 7120.0A.0d — Symptoms of Deceptive Experience

These 3 observations suggest your experience is being deceptive and not providing reliable knowledge:

1. **Availability Bias** — what is close at hand from an experience is rarely all there is. Is the experience based only on outcomes? What about the processes? (Looking at only successes or only failures.) Is it only your personal observations? What have others seen? What counterfactuals are missing?
2. **Inappropriate anchors** — fixating on details that may be irrelevant or worse against your interests
3. **Flawed convictions** — We learn through experience with such ease that we stop deliberating too quickly & become sure of our convictions, avoiding opportunities to relearn, review & improve

> 🔗 *see also: 7120.0A.0f*
> 🔗 *see also: 4125.25.1c*
> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pg. 226–28*

---

## 7120.0A.0f — Opportunity Costs of Experience

With increasing expertise, the opportunity cost of experimentation and trying out alternative solutions inevitably increases. We become lazy and over-reliant on our current experience level. This endangers our expertise and long-term performance during times of innovation &/or rapid change. We are left behind, stuck in our experience-based routines. We're trapped and our core capabilities turn into core [solid] rigidities.

> 🔗 *See also: 7120.0A.1*
> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pg. 69*

---

## 7120.0A.0e — Experience must be built on both Successes & Failures

**Success by itself is NOT a reliable teacher.** Choosing or learning entirely from success (or failure) can be surprisingly misleading. The best strategy is to consider both successes and failures, thoughtfully considering what may be causing the differences. However, this approach will not feel natural and we may not like what we end up learning if we persevere.

> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2016) pg. 170*

---

## 7120.0A.8 — The Narrative Fallacy & History

Taleb coined the term narrative fallacy in Black Swan. A form of dangerous simplification, where an author creates elaborate stories about experiences that are due to randomness. "What we see isn't necessarily all there is." ^30^ The nature of history itself makes partial knowledge inevitable. What we see or learn about is just one of the many possible outcomes and possibly not even the most probable version. Our stories infer wrongly a cause/effect relationship to a simple sequence of events. We like coherence in our understanding of the world and simplification can bring about a comfortable, but misleading coherence in our stories. ^30^

> 🔗 *see also: 5000F.3.3c*
> 📚 *Lissack, M (2016) pg. 30*
> 📚 *Taleb, N (2014) Black Swan*
> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pgs. 30–31*

---

## 7120.0A.8c — Randomness impacts Experience

Humans love to identify "causes" in our stories of experience even though the factors are actually too complex to identify and most likely random. This can result in learning & reinforcing lessons that don't really exist! ^52^ We are uncomfortable with randomness, reluctant to admit we're not in control of the results of our work and investments. ^38^

When success rates are small, randomness is likely playing a key role in the outcome. ^194^

> 🔗 *See also: 7120.0A.0*
> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pgs. 38, 52, 194*

---

## 7120.1.0/3a — Necessity of Motivated Reasoning

While motivated reasoning is often viewed as a fallacy or a "corrupter" of logic, it is actually a necessary complement that allows reasoning to operate in the real world. Motivation or emotion can act as a "stopping function" that mirrors AI's need for help to know when to conclude and act, complementing reason's real-world function. So, reason needs something beyond itself; a kind of judgement, limit, or stopping point to function meaningfully. To acknowledge emotions or motivation in reasoning is not necessarily fallacious.

*Satisficing as an example — see 2304.4.25*

> 📚 *Farina & Lavazza (2014)*

---

## 7120.2A.5c — Expert Space, 3 Dimensions of

Using the 3D cube illustration as in [2A.5], Collins & Evans summarize the expert space as having 3 dimensions:

1. **Individual accomplishment:** Group or individuals with respect to the domain in question
2. **Esotericity:** This captures the extent of access to social collectivity. Expertise is open or closed
3. **Exposure to tacit knowledge:** Type of exposure learner has to the domain ranging from published sources, through linguistic interaction to full participation

*(Card contains 3D cube diagram — Fig. 2.1 Three dimensions of expertise)*

> 🔗 *see also: 7120.2A.5*
> 📚 *Ericsson, K.A. (2nd ed.) (2018) pg. 91*


---

## 7120.0.0/13 — True Experts: an Alternate Definition

The key difference of this definition is that a "True" expert can exist only in or near a kind learning environment where knowledge is actually learnable by humans or algorithms. Otherwise it mimics Ericsson (see 7120.0. 0 & 0a). It's not really helpful and a bit pedantic as the term expert is widely used to describe capabilities that exist in some of the most wicked environments.

> 🔗 *See also: 7120.2A.5*
> 📚 *Farina & Lavazza (2024)*

---

## 7120.2A.5 — Expert Performance, 3 Dimensions of

*(Card contains 3D cube diagram — fig. 1 pg. 16)*

A "true" expert only exists in a small area of kind problems/environments, highly valid domains (where cues & outcomes are learnable), and 10+ years of deliberate practice. **Green is the zone of "True" expert.**

All others are experts of a lesser degree relying on the Ericsson definition `7120.0.0`, or highly skilled practitioners. In many domains predictions are a bad idea. `7120.3.5`

Axes: Structured Practice (0 → 10,000+ hours) × Learning Environment (Unkind → Kind) × Validity of Domain (Low → High)

> 📚 *Farina & Lavazza (2024) pg. 16*

---

## 7120.1.0f — Epistemic Practices Superior to Individual Experts

Individual experts are vulnerable to cognitive biases, blind spots, & epistemic limitations — collaborative, structured & social processes — are often designed to mitigate these weaknesses. In many ways this makes them superior to isolated expert judgement. ^110^ This challenges the notion of the all-knowing individual expert. Instead, authority often resides in well-structured collective practices like peer review.

**Epistemic Practices** are social practices aimed at goals like gathering evidence or conducting assessments. Not all such goals involve truth or knowledge directly; they can also include organizing info or enhancing reliability. For example, medicine pursues both epistemic goals (understanding disease) and practical goals (curing patients). ^170^

> 🔗 *See also: 7120.1.0/3*
> 📚 *Farina & Lavazza (2024) pgs. 110, 170*

---

## 7120.0.0A/5 — But We Need Experts

We need to rely on experts. It is unrealistic to expect the average citizen to work through a long checklist of warning indicators every time they confront a new expert. Our brains are designed to decide quickly and move on, often picking the option requiring the least overall effort.

*But which experts to rely on?*

> 📚 *Tetlock, P (2010) National Interest* — nationalinterest.org/bookreview/experts-[?]

---

## 7120.1.0/3 — Limits of Individual Rationality

Humans face cognitive limits: incomplete information, time pressure, and bias distort judgement. Herbert Simon called this bounded rationality — we satisfice, not optimize. Cognitive biases distort even expert reasoning. Emotional state & context further shape decisions. Rationality improves when in social structures designed to check error. Robust epistemic practices — peer review, institutional checks, adversarial testing — are needed to filter, refine, & contextualize individual expert claims.

> 🔗 *see also: 2304.4.25*
> 📚 *Simon (1957), Kahneman (2011), Gigerenzer (1999)*


---

## 7120.0.0 — Experts Defined

"A person having special skill or knowledge in some particular field" ^1^ seems too inclusive. A lot of study has occurred in the 2000s on how to acquire and what constitutes expertise. M. Gladwell published the 10,000 hours rule of thumb in 2013, but this is generally debunked. Some point to a period minimum of 10 years of deliberate work in the field. Ericsson lays out 3 tests for expertise: ^117^

1. Performance that is consistently superior to that of your peers
2. Your expertise produces concrete results (eg. chess = win)
3. True expertise can be measured and replicated in the lab

An expert practises deliberately. ^118^

> 📚 *dictionary.com*
> 📚 *Ericsson et al, 2006 HBR v85 pg. 116, 117, 118*

---

## 7120.0.0A — Definitions of Expertise (other)

**Simple:** Ericsson proposes expertise "refers to the characteristics, skills, & knowledge that distinguish experts from novices and less experienced people." (This is distinguished from Expert Performance which is a much narrowing term.)

**Best:** ^1^ Expertise is the above plus it is domain-specific & maybe time & place specific. Recognizing expertise and its knowledge, skills, and abilities are defined differently dependent on environment which persons develop & express their expertise. These skills must be recognized to exist in degrees rather than as all or none.

*(Card contains spectrum diagram: Novice → Student → Practitioner → Educator → Expert)*
*(source: me)*

Additional definitions: see back of card (p.6)

- "Ability to reliably & consistently produce a level of performance in a specific domain, that is much superior to the level attained by the novice." — JoE_3_2 — Palomaki et al. pdf
- "Expertise is consensuously defined as elite, peak, or exceptionally high level of performance on a particular task or within a given domain. Achievement of this status is often called an expert, master, virtuoso, maven, prodigy or genius." — Bourne Jr, Lyle et al. (2014) *Frontiers in Psychology* Opinion piece. pg 186

> 📚 *Ericsson et al. (2008) pg. 614* ^1^

---

## 7120.0.0A/a3 — Value of Experts

Their specialized knowledge is used to perform complex operations like brain surgery or aircraft design. They generate new knowledge. However, expertise often fails to confer an advantage in areas of uncertainty — a real-world component of decision-making such as medicine where one might expect it essential.

> 📚 *Tetlock, Philip (2017) pg. xviii*

---

## 7120.0.0b — The Lindy Effect: The Power of Time

The future life-expectancy of something is proportional to its current age. Simply put, the longer something lasts, the higher the likelihood it will exist in the future. This is often applied to books, ideas, or technologies by N. Taleb in his book *Antifragile*. This is a heuristic. Time is the real and ultimate Expert answering an age-old question: "who will judge the expert?" (who will guard the guard?)

> 📚 *Taleb, N (2018) pg. 142*

---

## 7120.0.0c — Accountability for Experts

In 2024, it is apparent that actual accountability for expert predictions is non-existent. The EJP project has shown there is something wrong with existing systems for getting to the truth both in the media-driven marketplace as in the top-secret world of intelligence analysis. Most disconcerting is the presence of "an inverse relationship" between indicators of good judgement and attractiveness to media and other consumers of expertise!

> 🔗 *see also: Accountability 2304.3.2a*
> 📚 *Tetlock, Philip (2017) pg. 217*

---

## 7120.0a.0c/8 — Expert Ability, a Myth of Media

"The more the media rely on experts, the more experts' reputation grows, the more they are relied on by businesses. The ability of the expert becomes a self-perpetuating myth." Questionable experts, not properly vetted can use the media to improve their reputation and opportunities as easily as genuine experts. ^pg.38^

The EPJ project discovered an inverse relationship between expert ability and attractiveness to the media. ^pg.217^

> 📚 *Tetlock, P (2017) p. 217*
> 📚 *Nason, R (2017) pg. 38*

---

## 7120.0A.1 — Experts' Cognitive Entrenchment

A behaviour coined by Rice University professor Erik Dane. For experts in narrow practices like accounting, bridge & poker playing, even slight changes in the rules can result in performance lower than novices, seemingly trading flexibility for narrow skill. As you develop expertise you have the more potential to get stuck in your thinking! Expertise↑, Flexibility↓. Counter this by having interests outside the domain of your expertise.

> 🔗 *see also: Producing Experts that aren't intellectuals 5000G.1.3*
> 📚 *Epstein, D; 2019 pg. 32*

---

## 7120.0A.0g — Innovation — Threat to Experience

Experience in a given domain tends to be a hindrance to innovation, rather than an aid. Disruptive change brought on by innovation may contradict lessons learned from experiences rendering them unreliable in the new environment. ^57^ The less the past resembles the future the less useful experience becomes especially for predicting what may lie ahead. ^pg.58^

> 📚 *Hogarth & Soyer (2020) pgs. 57–58*

---

## 7120.0A.2 — Cognitive Bias' Impacting Expertise

The list of Cognitive Bias' is long, but a very specific subset apply to Experts & Expertise (apply & plague actually). Experts should be better at self-monitoring than novices. (Ericsson, 2006 pg. 405)

- **Selection & Survivorship Bias** — eg. failures get systematically filtered out. You see only what has survived.
- **Overconfidence** — experts are likely to overestimate their abilities and scope of knowledge. Kahneman & Tversky, 1973 show that as confidence increases demonstrated abilities often get worse! An illusion of validity. See Dunning-Kruger effect for novices.

> 📚 *Spokojny D, 2024 pg. 1*

---

## 7120.0A.5 — Survivorship Bias

This bias results in a focus on the visible survivors. For example the WWII Bomber loss minimization project. This is a subset of some **Selection Bias** error, leading to a Survivorship bias error. This bias "implies that the highest performing realization will be the most visible. Why? Because the losers do not show up." ^183^ We are lazy and grab the information in front of us and ignore information we can't see. With survivorship bias, the size of the population where observations were derived is significant. ^193^

> 📚 *Hogarth, M (2020) pg. 146*
> 📚 *Taleb, N (2016) pg. 182–193*

---

## 7120.1.0/5 — Experts Appropriate for Complicated Systems

The characteristic of complicated systems is they can generally be managed successfully. This is an area where experts can shine. The more complicated the system the greater the need for experts and the higher the probability of success.

Complicated systems adhere to a set of axioms & rules, choosing the right frameworks and experts will hasten a successful outcome.

> 📚 *Nason, R (2017) pg. 92*

---

## 7120.1.0/6 — Complicated, Examples of

- completing a company's financial statements
- manufacturing processes & machines
- engineering products they are designing
- regulatory compliance

> 📚 *Nason, R (2017) pg. 66*

---

## 7120.1.0a/5 — Probabilistic Thinking

A probabilistic thinker considers alternative outcomes that might have taken place, like other paths in a Monte Carlo simulation. ^15^ This is also called counterfactual thinking, that is as simple as asking "what if?"

> 📚 *Taleb, N (2016) pg. 15*
> 📚 *Hogarth, RM (2020) pg. 49–53*

---

## 7120.1.0 — Experts in Rational Processes

When society must choose, we often find "experts" on both sides of the proposition. Experts are human, their vision often limited, prone to rationalizations, and conflicts of interest. When the proposition is very controversial it will be surrounded by UNCERTAINTIES, and competing values. There we cannot turn the decision-making over to the "experts" but must subject the proposition to an open and adversarial process to maintain rationality.

> 🔗 *see also: 1501.3.3*
> 📚 *Simon, H 1983 pg. 96–97*

---

## 7120.1.0a — Offerings of Experts

Experts should only offer alternatives not value judgements. ^268^

Conclusions are probabilistic not absolute. ^186^
*(see: 7120.1.0a/5)*

Should stick to their domain or expert failure is more likely. ^185^

> 📚 *Nichols, T 2024 pgs. 105–06 & 268*

---

## 7120.1.0b — Forced Compliance Quote

"Rather than trust individuals to judge what is best for their own happiness, health, and safety, we have become increasingly comfortable doing what 'experts' tell us — and increasingly comfortable with forcing others to do the same."

> 📚 *Gorsuch, N (2024) pg. 24*

---

## 7120.1.1 — Generalists

The pressure to achieve/seek out early specialization is antithetical to modern & future success in many fields and for solving complex problems of the Wicked type. One ideally should explore many fields and hobbies prior to choosing your specialist focus. The generalist [evolves into and] makes a better specialist.

Epstein writes: "Our greatest strength is the exact opposite of narrow specialization. It is the ability to integrate broadly." ^29^

> 📚 *Epstein, D. 2019 pg. 29*

---

## 7120.1.2 — Foxes

Thinkers who know many things and draw from an eclectic array of traditions. Foxes are adaptable and better at improvising in response to changing events. EPJ found scientific evidence that they were more reliable forecasters. Foxes are more:

a. skeptical of deductive approaches to explanation & prediction
b. disposed to qualify tempting analogies using disconfirming evidence
c. reluctant to make extreme predictions
d. worry about hindsight bias when judging the past
e. prone to a detached, ironic view of life
f. motivated to weave together conflicting arguments on foundational issues like human agency or rationality of decision making

[*over*]

Foxes don't mindlessly split the difference between opposing views. They can readily see an academic field infused with bias, the type only a minority would dare to state an obvious but unpleasant truth.

> 📚 *Tetlock, P (2017) pg. 88, 105*

---

## 7120.1.2a — Hedgehogs

Thinkers that know "one big thing," toil devotedly within one tradition, stick to a single overarching theory or ideology, and prefer formulaic solutions to ill-defined problems. EPJ research found them to be poorer forecasters, reluctant to admit mistakes and dismissive of dissonant evidence. However they have their strengths:

a. a resistance to distraction in unfavorable signal-to-noise environments
b. tough negotiators insuring against exploitation by adversaries
c. take responsibility for controversial decisions that will make enemies
d. determined to stay the course when sound policies run into temporary difficulties
e. capacity to inspire confidence by projecting decisive, can-do presence/posture.

> 📚 *Tetlock, P (2017) pg. 164*

---

## 7120.1A.0 — Ideas as Instruments (tools)

The Journeyman's work of lawyers, engineers, doctors, writers & professors is vitally dependant on ideas but not distinctively intellectual. Professionals use ideas (frozen) as tools. They possess mental skills, but lack qualities like disinterested intelligence, generalizing powers, free speculation, fresh observation, creative novelty, and radical criticism. (ex. Cognitive entrenchment 7120.0A.1) At work, they're mental technicians whose minds are applied to externally determined ends. Intellectual life has a **spontaneous character** and **inner determination**, with a balance between playfulness & "piety" (reverence for current thinking).

> 📚 *Hofstadter, R pg. K26 [?]*

---

## 7120.1A.1 — Evolutionary Process for Ideas

The evolutionary process is very myopic and focuses on the short run. It tends to stop when the local maxima is reached. This isn't ideal for large, complex problem solving. Also, "evolution is a search without a goal" ^70^ and this applies to knowledge as well. ^71^ Therefore, evolutionary processes do not map well to the evaluation, ranking, and fitness judgements for ideas in a rational process.

> 🔗 *see also: Lindy Effect 7120.0.0b*
> 📚 *Simon, H, 1983 pg. 67, 70–71*

---

## 7120.1A.2 — Reverse Engineering Evolution (not possible)

Forward development (engineering) is easier than reverse engineering and so much so in Nature due to causal opacity. We cannot see all the factors and their weight in complex systems and processes. Time has an intelligence we cannot fully comprehend.

> 📚 *Taleb, N (2018) pg. 25*

---

## 7120.2A.1 — Kind Problems

Chess, golf, and firefighting. Repetitive patterns, defined rules, boundaries and consequences that are quickly apparent are signs of a Kind learning environment. "Chunking" — with Kind problems rules of thumb like Gladwell's 10,000 hour rule and rushing to early specialization will impact ultimate expertise in a positive way. Kind problems or environments are the exception not the rule.

> 🔗 *see also: Wicked Problems 7120.2A.2*
> 📚 *Epstein, D; 2019 pg. 20–24, 213*

---

## 7120.2A.2 — Wicked Problems

Wicked Domains — rules are unclear or incomplete, no repetitive patterns, feedback (consequences) are delayed, inaccurate or BOTH! In a Wicked environment, experience will reinforce exactly the wrong lessons.

> 🔗 *see also: 1501.3.3*
> 🔗 *see also: Kind Problems 7120.2A.1*
> 📚 *Epstein, D; 2019 pg. 20–24, 213*
